#summary This is the planned development roadmap for the MSC Assets application.

==General==
As a dedicated, simple application, this project should reach 1.0 maturity fairly rapidly (compared to other open source projects that are perpetually released as 0.X). However, we have a very specific roadmap for the pre-1.0 milestone releases.

Post 1.0 releases are really not even on our radar at this point. Perhaps we will, at some point, make the application more AJAX-driven, or update the look-and-feel, but we honestly don't have anything planned at this stage that won't be in 1.0.

==Milestone: Release 0.1==
The 0.1 release should be a stable (though technically still _beta_), usable asset inventory system. It will include all the organizational tools ([Categories], [Users],  necessary for data entry, and not much more. Users who absolutely must track assets immediately will find this minimal system functional. It's suggested, however, that you wait until 0.2 before using this in a live, production environment.

==Milestone: Release 0.2==
The 0.2 release will implement logging functionality to track entry and changes related to assets. This will be vital for reporting later on, so users that implemented a 0.1 system might encounter problems with forward compatibility, since some assets would have vital log data missing. Release 0.2 should be considered future friendly, usable, and relatively stable.

==Milestone: Release 0.3==
The 0.3 release will fully enable the skinning of the application. Each skin would consist of a basic html file with special tags (for auto-replacement of the content, page title, etc.) and any needed support files (css, images, etc.). Once this milestone is reached, users will be able to create their own look-and-feel for the interface, completely changing how it looks while maintaining consistent entry.

==Milestone: Release 0.4==
The 0.4 release will focus on building report functionality into the application. At this point, integrated ("inline") reporting will be added throughout the interface, and bulk reporting tools (End-of-Year Depreciation, Excel dumps, etc.) will be provided in a Reports section.

==Future Milestones==
As we encounter more suggestions and ideas, we'll add them to the appropriate release map if we plan to implement them. Until we reach 1.0, it's hard to gauge how many releases we'll need. At some point, though, we will start deferring ideas to post-1.0 release maps.